President Obama: Hi everybody.
Wednesday is Earth Day,
a day to appreciate and
protect this precious
planet we call home.
And today, there's no
greater threat to our planet
than climate change.
2014 was the planet's
warmest year on record.
Fourteen of the 15 hottest
years on record have all
fallen in the first 15
years of this century.
This winter was cold in
parts of our country - as
some folks in Congress like
to point out - but around
the world, it was the
warmest ever recorded.
And the fact that the
climate is changing has very
serious implications
for the way we live now.
Stronger storms.
Deeper droughts.
Longer wildfire seasons.
The world's top climate
scientists are warning us
that a changing climate
already affects the air our
kids breathe.
Last week, the Surgeon
General and I spoke with
public experts about how
climate change is already
affecting patients
across the country.
The Pentagon says that
climate change poses
immediate risks to our
national security.
And on Earth Day, I'm
going to visit the Florida
Everglades to talk about
the way that climate change
threatens our economy.
The Everglades is one of the
most special places in our
country.
But it's also one
of the most fragile.
Rising sea levels are
putting a national treasure
- and an economic engine for
the South Florida tourism
industry - at risk.
So climate change can no
longer be denied -
or ignored.
The world is looking to the
United States - to us -
to lead.
And that's what we're doing.
We're using more clean
energy than ever before.
America is number
one in wind power,
and every three weeks, we
bring online as much solar
power as we did
in all of 2008.
We're taking steps
to waste less energy,
with more fuel-efficient
cars that save us money at
the pump, and more
energy-efficient buildings
that save us money on
our electricity bills.
So thanks in part
to these actions,
our carbon pollution has
fallen by 10 percent since
2007, even as we've grown
our economy and seen the
longest streak of
private-sector job growth
on record.
We've committed to doubling
the pace at which we cut
carbon pollution, and
China has committed,
for the first time, to
limiting their emissions.
And because the world's
two largest economies came
together, there's
new hope that,
with American
leadership, this year,
the world will finally reach
an agreement to prevent the
worst impacts of climate
change before it's too late.
This is an issue that's
bigger and longer-lasting
than my presidency.
It's about protecting our
God-given natural wonders,
and the good jobs
that rely on them.
It's about shielding our
cities and our families from
disaster and harm.
It's about keeping our
kids healthy and safe.
This is the only
planet we've got.
And years from now, I want
to be able to look our
children and grandchildren
in the eye and tell them
that we did everything
we could to protect it.
Thanks everybody, and
have a great weekend.